# WOD 156

---
Category: zombie-fit
Type: EMOM
Difficulty: Beginner / Advanced / Expert
date: 2010-06-09
original_url: "http://zombiefit.org/2010/06/wod-060910/"
wayback_url: "http://web.archive.org/web/2/http://zombiefit.org/2010/06/wod-060910/"
---

## Warm Up

Run 1/4 mile | row 250m | bike 2 miles.

3 rounds of:
- 10 Air Squats
- 10 Push Ups
- 10 Sit Ups
- 10 Pull Ups | Jumping Pull Ups
- 10 isuckatthis (perform a movement you "suck" at)

If the movement you "suck at" is already in the warm up, perform 15 repetitions of that movement instead of 10. If it's a progression (e.g., handstand push-ups), use an appropriate progression.

## WOD

### Étudiant — Beginner

Stand in place and mark the spot where your feet are. Then find a spot (either visually or by marking it) approximately 4 feet away. That spot is where you’ll be precisioning for the workout. With a continuously running clock do one precision the first minute, two precisions the second minute, three precisions the third minute… continuing as long as you are able. Use as many sets each minute as needed.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  Precision (to ~4ft target)
```

### Avancée — Advanced

Pick a precision length of 75% of your max broad jump. If possible precision over a gap or up to a ledge. With a continuously running clock do one precision the first minute, two the second minute, three the third minute… continue as long as you are able. After you have been unable to perform any more precisions, take a 2:00 break. Then, with a continuously running clock do one push up the first minute, two push ups the second minute, three push ups the third minute… continuing as long as you are able.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  Precision (75% max broad jump)
2:00
:60 EMOM
  Push Ups
```

### Traceur — Expert

Pick a precision length of 75% of your max broad jump. If possible precision over a gap or up to a ledge. With a continuously running clock do one precision the first minute, two the second minute, three the third minute… continue as long as you are able. After precision failure, take a 2:00 break. Then do the progressive push up EMOM (1,2,3,… per minute) until failure. After push ups, take a 2:00 break. Then with a continuously running clock do a progressive squat EMOM (1 squat the first minute, 2 the second, 3 the third…) continuing as long as you are able.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  Precision (75% max broad jump)
2:00
:60 EMOM
  Push Ups
2:00
:60 EMOM
  Squats
```

## Cool Down

In the smallest number of sets possible, complete 50 pull ups. (May substitute with chin ups, jumping pull ups, | L-sit pull ups depending on ability level.)

```wod
50 Pull Ups
```

## Post

Post rounds completed to comments.
