# WOD 652

---
Category: zombie-fit
Type: EMOM
Difficulty: Beginner / Advanced / Expert
date: 2012-05-11
original_url: "http://zombiefit.org/2012/05/wod-051112/"
wayback_url: "http://web.archive.org/web/2/http://zombiefit.org/2012/05/wod-051112/"
---

## Warm Up

Run 1/4 mile or bike 2 miles or row 250m.

```wod
(3)
  10 Air Squats
  10 Sit Ups
  10 Push Ups
  10 Pull Ups
```

## WOD

### Étudiant — Beginner

Increase repetitions by 1 each minute (minute 1 = 1 rep of each movement, minute 2 = 2 reps, etc.). Continue until you are unable to complete the required repetitions within the minute.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  + 1 Air Squat
  + 1 Push Up
  + 1 Sit Up
```

### Avancée — Advanced

Increase repetitions by 1 each minute (minute 1 = 1 rep of each movement, minute 2 = 2 reps, etc.). Continue until you are unable to complete the required repetitions within the minute.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  + 1 Air Squat
  + 1 Sit Up
  + 1 Push Up
  + 1 Pull Up
```

### Traceur — Expert

Increase repetitions by 1 each minute (minute 1 = 1 rep of each movement, minute 2 = 2 reps, etc.). Continue until you are unable to complete the required repetitions within the minute.

```wod
:60 EMOM
  + 1 Air Squat
  + 1 Sit Up
  + 1 Push Up
  + 1 Double Under
  + 1 Pull Up
```

## Cool Down

If you completed less than 5 rounds of the exercises above, complete 50 repetitions of each movement. If you completed less than 10 rounds but more than 5 rounds, complete 25 repetitions of each movement. If you completed more than 10 rounds but less than 15 rounds, complete 10 repetitions of each movement. If you completed 15 rounds or more, no additional work is required.

This is to be completed on your own time. This second part of the workout is not a metabolic conditioning workout.

## Post

Post rounds completed to comments.
