# WOD 250

---
Category: zombie-fit
Type: Intervals
Difficulty: Beginner / Advanced / Expert
date: 2010-10-22
original_url: "http://zombiefit.org/2010/10/wod-102210/"
wayback_url: "http://web.archive.org/web/2/http://zombiefit.org/2010/10/wod-102210/"
---

## Warm Up

Run 1/4 mile | row 250m | bike 1 mile.

```wod
(3)
  10 Air Squats
  10 Push Ups
  10 Sit Ups
  10 Pull Ups | Jumping Pull Ups
  10 I Suck At This
```

Perform a movement that you "suck at." If that movement is already in the warm up, perform 15 repetitions of that movement instead of 10. For example, if you suck at sit ups and sit ups are in the warm up, do 3 rounds of 15. If you suck at handstand push ups, perform 3 rounds of 10 handstand push ups (or the appropriate progression) and add that to the warm up.

## WOD

Skill Work: Quadrupedal Movement — concentrate on forward quadrupedal movement. Make seamless transitions with minimal excess body movement. Complete at least 100m of forward quadrupedal movement. This is not a race; go slow and learn the movement.

```wod
100m Quadrupedal Movement
```

### Étudiant — Beginner

Half Tabata Sprints (4 rounds)

```wod
(4) :20 Tabata Sprints
2:00 Max Effort Push Ups
2:00 Max Effort Jumping Pull Ups
```

### Avancée — Advanced

Half Tabata Sprints (4 rounds)

```wod
(4) :20 Tabata Sprints
2:00 Max Effort Push Ups
2:00 Max Effort Pull Ups
```

### Traceur — Expert

Tabata Sprints (8 rounds)

```wod
(8) :20 Tabata Sprints
2:00 Max Effort Push Ups
2:00 Max Effort Pull Ups
```

The Tabata protocol was originally designed as a running workout. In this workout "sprint" means run as fast as you can for 20 seconds. If you cannot sprint for 20 seconds consistently, consider a practice run prior to the WOD. You may sprint at ~75% effort for 20 seconds and attempt to match that distance during each Tabata set.

"Max effort" in this context means performing as many repetitions as possible in at least a 2:00 time frame. The goal is minimal rest and working to failure (you should not be able to perform a single strict-form push up or pull up after these sets). If you are taking rests longer than 10 seconds to get consecutive movements after the 2:00 mark, consider the set complete.
