
## Tech Level

###  Feat:  Page Level - View / Panel -> Runtime coupling
- decoupled panels / views / pages with multiple running engines.
- view vs  panels and how they should work across mobile / chrome-cast / web view

Three types of view:
- Docs: this would includes the home page, getting started sysntaxs.  they shoudl all use the same framework allowing for composition of sections paralax enabled views sometimnes with out a screen, and different ways of buindg the sections on these pages with the runtime that they are bound to.  
	- A panel with palaex steps (inlcudes transition actions between them in a standard way.)
	- a panel with just content that needs to scroll the way it needs to.
	- a sticky navigation panel that could follow a html hero section like on a landing page or strat out at the top liek syntax 
	- hero or banner page.
- Journal Page 
	- basically like the playgro und page or the collection page see more about how thsi shoudl work later with Journal page view updates.
- Calendar View (s)
	- these should have a web and mobile versions that show a top calendar (in mobile caldear only) in desktop calendar plus summary of view along side to fill out the width in a split coplumn.
	- the calendar should be able to be slecteable, with start and fnish dates of click only allowing the display to list notes from the selected date bellow.
- the bottom should be scrollabel section, it will be driveen by a special tab at the top column that flips btween ( list | detail | results ) views and display the different conetnt from with in that spaces based ont he selected viewsl.  each has its own panel asscoiated with it and can load its data fromt he indexeb

### Feat: Consistent Parallax
- defined and abstract parallax pages experience that is easy to script for and support running multiple engine and linking different views to the engines.  abstract page comparable with sections with in parallax and specific transition points.  

### Feat: Dialects
 - Decouple language and dialects.
	- core dialects should include core  of measurements 
	- language dialect consists of collection of mutation stratgies that generate metrics overrides of dialect level.  (see more on container feater)
- Define core dialects
	- weights
	- crossfit
	- swimming
	- running
	- kettlebell ect
- define the core interfaces for how dialects get applyed

### Feat: Metric Container Alignment
- Clearly define order precedent of metrics by ownership and allow for higher level events to
	- add new metrics that didn't exist.
	- null existing metrics 
	- define some metric to be a promotion level metric
	- create a new instance of the same metric (old is preserveved, but reading the container return the higher level instance of the metric)
  - Order is:
	- dialect can override parser metrics  add or "replace",  null out, create its own version when reading the contrainr
	- user can then "user-plan" can override that to allowing items to be composed or nulled befre sending the engine.
	- runtime will the override any projected metrics and add any metrics applied by the processors as the output is streaming.
	- user can then "user-entry" level metrics then can override values the runtime returned.

### Feat: Query Language (brian storming)
- Generic reporting feature with query language 
- query builder interface for UI level 
- 

### Feat:  Reporting Target (brain storming)
- Default report Pages
	- Tables
	- Graphs
	- Maps
	- ??
- Way to consume the query language f

## Feature Level

### Feat: Droping support files (prototype gpx files)

### Feat Journal View
- consistence journal view page experiance across sizes of view.
- remove line numbers
- journal page index 
	- as submenu under Hamberguer manu for the section correct parents sections.
	- narrow view with full width editor, as a select option in the navigation panel  
	- as a right alignged sticky nav panel floating next to  the xl4 limited size maxt with editor that contrllls teh page scrool still.

### Feat: Calendar View
- select days for query building

### Feat: Weekly planner view
- a simiar to calednar view, but focused on the current week

### Feat:  Reporting 
- reporting (automatic on static code statements for projected outcomes   allowing user entered values for projected result metricsd (overriden if runtime is run.))
- reporting (automatic on the results of a runtime output)
- reporting (custom reports)
### Feat: Zip Link Redirect
- when link has &link flag, ask user what they want to do.
	- Open in --Playground--
	- Add to -- Today -- button
	- Plan for --Calendar-- button
- when no flag, redirect to playground automatcally.
